applet
A program that appears in a window, often intended to be embedded in a HTML document.
application
A stand-alone Java program stored and executed on the user's local computer.

base or radix
In an example of 2^X, 2 is the base or radix. The numeric in an exponent.

binary
A string of bits, Base 2.

boolean expression
Is a selection control structure that introduces a decision-making ability into a program, TRUE or FALSE

checked exception
An error that is resolved in a program usually with a try..catch block.

compound boolean expressions
Combination of two conditionals that evaluate to true or false.

declaration
An equation (has an =) that identifies a variable.

double precision
A binary computing format that occupies 8 bytes in computer memory.

exception
An error condition that occurs during the execution of a Java program.

final or user-defined constant
Constant, cannot be changed.

hexidecimal
Number utilizing base 16

identifier
Name of a variable, parameter, constant, user-defined method, or user-defined class.

initialization
To start, the first value given to a variable

instance variables
identifiers used to descibe the attributes of an object.

logical operator
Applied to boolean expressions to form compound boolean expressions that evaluate to true or false. AND, OR and NOT.

mantissa
Specifies the digits of a number when an exponent is used.

nested or embedded
One control statement inside another, such as an if or loop.

overflow error
When you try to strore a value whose magnitude is too big an int variable.

primative types or built in type
Type of sequence of letters or digits specified by int, boolean, or double.

relational operator
Used in boolean expressions that evaluate to true or false. Combinations of <. > or =

reserved words or keywords
Words used by java that have a special meaning. They cannot be used as variable names.

round off errors
When double values are translated to binary bits information is lost or created.

short-cut evalulation
The process in an "if statment" that allows it to skip the rest of the stated program, should it come to the conclusion prior to the end of the program.

single precision
A binary computing format that occupies 4 bytes in computer memory.

statements
A line of java code.

static
Not belonging to a class or individual objects.

termination condition
The condition that stops the loop.

unchecked exception
An error that will not be resolved in the program.

update statement
The way the index of a loop changes value.

variable
An identifier that represents a location in memory.